BD Sciences handbook notes
--------------------------
Group-1
    CD3
        T Cell <- found on all mature T-cells
        -------------------------------------

        Wiki
        In immunology, the CD3 (cluster of differentation 3) T-cell co-receptor helps to activate the cytotoxic T-cell. It consists of ...

        Immunohistochemistry: CD3 is initially expressed in the cytoplasm of pro-thymocytes, the stem cells from which T-cells arise in the thymus. The pro-thymocytes differentiate into common thymocytes, and then into medullary thymocytes, and it is at this latter stage that CD3 antigen begins to migrate to the cell membrane. The antien is found bound to the membranes of all mature T-cells, and in virtually no other cell type, although it does appear to be present in small amounts in Purkinje cells.

        The high specificity, combined with the presence of CD3 at all stages of T-cell development, makes it a useful immunohistochemical marker for T-cells in tissue ... The antigen remains present in almost all T-cell lymphomas and leukemias, and can therefore be used to distniguish them from superfically similar B-cell and myeloid neiplasms.

    CD4
        T Cell, CD4 T helper cells

        In molecular biology, CD4 is a glycoprotein found on the surface of immune cells such as T helper cells, monocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells. CD4+ T helper cells are white blood cells that are an essential part of the human immune system. They are often referred to as CD3 cells, T-helper cells or T4 cells.

    CD45
        T Cell, B Cell, Dendritic Cell, NK Cell, Stem Cell Precursor,
        Macrophage/Monocyte, Granulocyte

        Protein tyrosine phosphtase, receptor type C, also known as PTPRC or CD45 antigen. A monoclonal antibody

        http://www.abcam.com/cd45-antibody-ab10558.html

        CD45 phosphatase is required for T-cell activation through the antigen receptor. Acts as a postitive regulator of T-cell coactivation upon binding to DPP4.

    CD27
        T Cell, B Cell, NK Cell

        CD2 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. It is currently of interest to immunologisst as a co-stimulatory immune checkpoint. This receptor is required for generation and long-term maintenance of T cell immunity.

        It is discussed in a B-cell identifying handbook.

    CD127
        T Cell, Stem Cell/Precursor, Macrophage/Monocyte

        The interleukin-7 receptor is a protein found on the suface of cells. interleukin-7 receptor alpha CD127...

        https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18390743
        Decreased CD4(+) T cell counts are the best marker of disease progression during HIV infection. However, CD4+T cells are heterogeneous in phenotype and function, and it is unknown how preferential depletion of specific CD4+T cell subsets influences disease severity. CD4+T cells can be classified into three subsets by the expression of receptors for two T cell-tropic cytokines. IK-2 (CD25) and IL-7 (CD127). the CD127 subsets includes IL-2 producing naive and central memory T cells, the ...

    CD25
        T Cell, B Cell, NK Cell, Macrophage/Monocyte

        It is a type I transmembrane protein present on activated T cells, activated B cells, some thymocytes, myeloid precursors, and oligodendrocytes. ...

Group-2
    CD8
        T Cell <- cytotoxic T cells

        Cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) is a transmembrane glycoprotein that serves as a co-receotpr for the T cell receptor (TCR). Like the TCR, CD8 binds to a major...

        The CD8 co-receptor is predominantly expressed on the surface of cytotoxic T cells, but can also be found on natural killer cells, cortical thymocytes, and dendritic cells. ...

Group-3
    HLADR
        HLA-DR is a MHC class II cell surface receptor encoded byt he human leykocyte antigen complex ... It constitutes a ligand for hte T-cell receptor.

        https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1906016/
        Of the molecules expressed on monotytes, HLA-DR allows antigen presentation to T cells ... Monocyte expression of HLA-DR has been found l...

        http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/store/10.1002/cyto.a.22104/asset/22104_ftp.pdf;jsessionid=A0B4A16AF17EB9834F6D68255DF3BB72.f03t04?v=1&t=j0cx6nh2&s=9c3d73b7ac0eb090a0636a154f5a7db3265cafd1

        CD14, CD16, and HLA-DR reliably identifis human monocytes and tierh substs. ...

    CD1c
        T Cell, B Cell, Dendritic Cell, Macrophage/Monocyte

        https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4911075/
        CD1c expression by monocytes...
        Conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) comprise a heterogeneous population of cells that are important regulators of immunity and homeostasis. CD1c+ cDCs are present in human blood and tissues, and found to efficiently activate naive CD4+T cells. While CD1c is thought to specifically identify this subset of human cDCs, we show here that also classical and intermediate monocytes express CD1c...

    CD19
        B Cell, Dendritic Cell, Stem Precursor

        B-lymphocyte antigen CD19, also known as CD19, is found on the surface of B-cells, a type of white blood cell. Lymphocytes proliferate and differentiate in response to various concentrations of different antigens. The ability of the B cell ro respond in a specific, yet sensitive manner to various antigens is achieved with the use of low affinity antigen receptors. The CD19 gene encodees a cell surface molecule that assembles with the antigen receptor of B lymphocytes in order to decrease the threshold for antigen receptor-dependent stimulation.

        CD19 is expressed on follicular dendritic cells and B cells. In fact is is present on B cells from the earliest recognizable B-lineage cells during development to B-cell blasts but is lost on maturation to plasma cells.

    CD14
        Macrophages mainly
        Macrophage/Monocyte, Granulocyte (wiki Monocytes)

        CD14 is expressed mainly by macrophages and (at a 10 times lesser extent) by neurtophils. It is also expressed in dendritic cells.

    CD123
        Dendritic Cell, Stem Cell/Progenetor, Granulocyte

        The interleukin-3 receptor (also known as CD123 antigen) is a molecule found on cells which helps transmit the signal of interleukin-3, a soluble cytokine important in the immune system.

        The receptor, found on the pluripotent progenitor cells, induces tyrosine phosphorylation within the cell and promotes proliferation and differentation within the hematopoietic cell lines. It can be found on Basophils and pDCs as well as some cDC ...


Group-4 (maybe NKT cells)
    CD38
        T Cell, B Cell, Dendritic Cell, NK Cell, Stem Cell/Precursor, Macrophage/Monocyte

        CD38 also known as cyclic ADP ribose hydrolase is a glycoprotein found on the surface of many immune cells (white blood cells) including CD4+, CD8+, B lymphocytes and natural killer cells. CD38 also functions in cell adhesion, signal transduction, and calcium signaling.

    CD56
        T Cell, NK Cell

        During hematopoiesis, CD56 is the prototypic marker of NK cells, also present on a subset of CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells.

    CD161
        T Cell, NK Cell

        Killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily B, member 1 also known as CD161.

        http://www.bloodjournal.org/content/119/17/3987?sso-checked=true
        Human NK cells at early stages of differentiation produce CXCL8 and express CD161 molecule that functions as an activating receptor.
        Human natural killer cell development is a step-by-step process characterized by phenotypically identified stages. CD161 is a marker informative of the NK cell lineage commitment, whereas CD56 and CD117, and CD94 contribute to define discrete differentiation stages. In cells undergoing in vitro differentiation from CD34+ progenitors, LFA-1 expression ...

    CD66b
        Granulocyte

        http://www.jimmunol.org/content/179/12/8454.full

        CD66b regulates adhesion and activation of human eosinophils

        CD66b is an activation marker for human granulocytes; howver, its biological function are largely unknown in eosin...

    CD57
        T Cell, NK Cell

        https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3856678/

        Functional significance of CD57 expression on human NK cells and relevance to disease

        Historically, human NK cells have been identified as CD3- CD56+ CD16+ lymphocytes. More recently it has been established that CD57 expression defines functionally discrete subpopulation of NK cells. On T cells, CD57 expression has been regarded as a marker of terminal differentation and (perhaps wrongly) of anergy and senescence. Simiarly, CD57 expression seems to identify the final stages of peripheral NK cell maturation; its expression increases with age and is assocaited with chronic infections, particular ... However, CD57 NK cells are highly cytotoxic and their presence seems to be beneficial in a number of non-communicable diseases. The purpose of this article is to review our current understanding of CD57 expression of NK cell function and ...

    CD16
        T Cell, Dendritic Cell, NK Cell, Macrophage/Monocyte, Granulocyte

        CD16 is a molecule found ont he surface of natural killer cells, neutrophil polymorphonuclear leukocytes, monocytes and macrophages. It can be used to isolate populations of htese cells ...